Thanks to modern technology, people the world over say that they have more friends than ever.
All they have to do is add a person's name to their list of friends on a social network.
Some boast of having hundreds, even thousands, of such friends.
Others don't have access to the internet, so they make friends the old-fashioned way.
At work, at school, or in the neighborhood.
Having good friends is very important, so we need to ask ourselves, what is true friendship?
Where should I look for true friends?
How can my choice of friends affect my joy?
As you watch the following dramatization, think about the effect our brother's choice of
friends has on his joy.
And believe me, that's not the only dirt I have on Victor.
Okay, we're listening.
So last week he's talking in his office, right?
And he has no idea that I'm standing right there, and he's bragging to his buddy.
I really didn't want to hear this.
A bunch of them seemed harmless, but this was anything but a building.
Hey, hey, check out these guys.
It's the viable people.
Uh-oh, don't look now.
They have someone.
They might try to convert us, too.
What is the deal with these people?
I mean, it's cool if you want to believe in fairy tales and everything, but keep it to
yourself, right?
Exactly.
Those carts are everywhere now.
I couldn't finish my lunch.
I had never noticed how sarcastic and negative my co-workers could be.
I had always thought of them as, well, as friends.
What kind of friends was I making?
Did you see the brother's face at the end of the video?
He didn't look very happy.
Why not?
The association seemed harmless.
Workmates were just taking their lunch break together.
But their conversation went in a negative direction.
They began talking about finding dirt on a fellow worker.
Then it got personal.
His co-workers started to make fun of the witnesses who were preaching using a cart.
Please open your Bibles to Proverbs chapter 19.
We're going to read three verses here, and these verses reveal the disappointing reality
of looking to the world as a source of true friends.
Proverbs chapter 19 will start with verse 4 and then read verses 6 and 7.
Both the tracts many friends, but the poor man will be deserted even by his friend.
Many seek the favor of a noble, and everyone is a friend of the man who gives gifts.
All the brothers of a poor man hate him.
How much more he is shunned by his friends.
He pursues them with request, but no one responds.
Friends in the world are often based on selfish motives.
As verse 4 says, wealth attracts friends, poverty drives them away.
Such friendships can be shallow, and they can end abruptly.
142-year-old woman had over a thousand friends on her social network.
But not one of those friends responded to her plea for help just before she took her
own life.
Friendships with the world are not only disappointing, but they can also damage our relationship with
Jehovah.
With good reason, the footnote to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 33 warns us, bad associations
corrupt good morals.
Cultivating friendships with people who do not serve Jehovah is like trying to mix oil
with water.
It just doesn't work.
Why not?
Because the scriptures teach that true friends can be found only among Jehovah's people.
Our Christian Brotherhood is the only place where we can find friends like the one described
at Proverbs chapter 18 verse 24.
Please open to that scripture, and notice the distinction between a companion and a true
friend.
Proverbs chapter 18 verse 24 reads,
There are companions ready to crush one another, but there is a friend who sticks closer
than a brother.
Our Christian brothers and sisters are not simply companions or acquaintances, someone
we happen to know.
They are loyal friends.
We can rely on them.
Why?
Is it because we're all the same age?
Is it because we come from the same national, economic or social background?
No.
Our friends in the Christian congregation stick closer than a brother because they share
our faith, our values, our love for Jehovah and our hopes.
They work with us side by side in the ministry.
They support us when we're discouraged or when we're facing a trial.
They rejoice with us when we have good times together in Jehovah's service.
And the true friendships that we enjoy now in the Christian congregation are going to
last forever.
Do you remember the brother having lunch with his workmates?
In the following dramatization, watch his face closely and notice how having true friends
affected his joy.
I was so glad I had taken a day off from work.
How long had it been since Lisa and I got to spend a whole day together in midweek service?
Lisa started a Bible study and we got to share our day with good friends.
People like Sam and Chloe, they've really been there for us through the ups and downs.
Is that you?
What are you doing over there?
Did you guys know about this?
I don't know where we'd be if Jehovah hadn't helped us to keep our priorities straight.
Keeping our life simple, having a clean conscience, staying focused on work that has real meaning.
And having real friends.
What more can you ask for?
Isn't that the way we feel after we spend time with our true friends in the congregation?
What is it about our brothers and sisters that makes those friendships so special, so precious?
Why do those friendships bring us so much joy?
Because our friendship is based on a solid foundation.
Even when we meet a fellow witness for the first time, we already know a lot about each other.
Think about all the things we share in common.
We worship the only true God, Jehovah.
We speak the same pure language of truth.
We adhere to Jehovah's high moral standards, and we have the same hope for the future.
These things are the foundation of a relationship built on confidence and trust, a true friendship.
What a contrast to people who do not know Jehovah, whether their friendships are formed online
at work at school or in the neighborhood.
Friendships in the world are often based on shared interest.
However, true friendships are based on common values.
Please open to Proverbs 17, verse 17.
And notice the kind of friendships we will enjoy when they are based on spiritual values.
Proverbs 17, verse 17.
A true friend shows love at all times, and is a brother who is born for times of distress.
True friends support one another physically, emotionally, and spiritually, and our true friendships
make a valuable contribution to our joy.
People everywhere want to be happy, but many fail to find true joy
because they are looking in the wrong place.
As we have discussed in this symposium, the world claims that we can be happy if we pursue wealth,
if we engage in sinful conduct, if we adopt extreme views of work,
or if we cultivate friendships anywhere we can find them.
Such assertions originate with the ruler of the world, the father of the lie, Satan the devil.
If we look for happiness in Satan's world, we are going to be disappointed.
In contrast, this first symposium of our always-rejoice convention has identified four factors
that contribute to our lasting joy. God's word teaches us that joy comes from
first, living a simple life, second having a clean conscience,
third doing meaningful work, and fourth having true friendships.
Our loving father Jehovah knows what makes us truly happy,
so may we continue to follow his sound advice. If we do, we will find a abundant joy that lasts forever.